README.md, before:

# zxcvbn

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/shssoichiro/zxcvbn-rs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/shssoichiro/zxcvbn-rs)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/zxcvbn.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/zxcvbn)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/zxcvbn.svg)](https://github.com/shssoichiro/zxcvbn-rs/blob/master/LICENSE)

## Overview

This library is a Rust port of Dropbox's `zxcvbn` Javascript library. The following description is borrowed from their Readme:

`zxcvbn` is a password strength estimator inspired by password crackers. Through pattern matching and conservative estimation, it recognizes and weighs 30k common passwords, common names and surnames according to US census data, popular English words from Wikipedia and US television and movies, and other common patterns like dates, repeats (`aaa`), sequences (`abcd`), keyboard patterns (`qwertyuiop`), and l33t speak.

Consider using zxcvbn as an algorithmic alternative to password composition policy — it is more secure, flexible, and usable when sites require a minimal complexity score in place of annoying rules like "passwords must contain three of {lower, upper, numbers, symbols}".

* __More secure__: policies often fail both ways, allowing weak passwords (`P@ssword1`) and disallowing strong passwords.
* __More flexible__: zxcvbn allows many password styles to flourish so long as it detects sufficient complexity — passphrases are rated highly given enough uncommon words, keyboard patterns are ranked based on length and number of turns, and capitalization adds more complexity when it's unpredictaBle.
* __More usable__: zxcvbn is designed to power simple, rule-free interfaces that give instant feedback. In addition to strength estimation, zxcvbn includes minimal, targeted verbal feedback that can help guide users towards less guessable passwords.

## Installing

`zxcvbn` can be added to your project's `Cargo.toml` under the `[dependencies]` section, as such:

```toml
[dependencies]
zxcvbn = "0.1.0"
```

If your project will only be built against the nightly Rust compiler, you can add the `unstable` feature flag to enable
some nightly-exclusive features such as SIMD which may improve performance.

```toml
[dependencies]
zxcvbn = { version = "0.1.0", features = ["unstable"] }
```

zxcvbn follows Semantic Versioning.

## Usage

Full API documentation can be found [here](https://docs.rs/crate/zxcvbn).

`zxcvbn` exposes one function called `zxcvbn` which can be called to calculate a score (0-4) for a password as well as other relevant information.
`zxcvbn` may also take an array of user inputs (e.g. username, email address, city, state) to provide warnings for passwords containing such information.

Usage example:

```rust
extern crate zxcvbn;

use zxcvbn::zxcvbn;

fn main() {
    let estimate = zxcvbn("correcthorsebatterystaple", None).unwrap();
    println!("{}", estimate.score); // 3
}
```

Other fields available on the returned `Entropy` struct may be viewed in the [full documentation](https://docs.rs/crate/zxcvbn).

## Contributing

Any contributions are welcome and will be accepted via pull request on GitHub. Bug reports can be
filed via GitHub issues. Please include as many details as possible. If you have the capability
to submit a fix with the bug report, it is preferred that you do so via pull request,
however you do not need to be a Rust developer to contribute.
Other contributions (such as improving documentation or translations) are also welcome via GitHub.

## License

zxcvbn is open-source software, distributed under the MIT license.

Commit message:

Add support for serialization with rustc-serialize and serde

README.md, after:

# zxcvbn

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/shssoichiro/zxcvbn-rs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/shssoichiro/zxcvbn-rs)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/zxcvbn.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/zxcvbn)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/zxcvbn.svg)](https://github.com/shssoichiro/zxcvbn-rs/blob/master/LICENSE)

## Overview

This library is a Rust port of Dropbox's `zxcvbn` Javascript library. The following description is borrowed from their Readme:

`zxcvbn` is a password strength estimator inspired by password crackers. Through pattern matching and conservative estimation, it recognizes and weighs 30k common passwords, common names and surnames according to US census data, popular English words from Wikipedia and US television and movies, and other common patterns like dates, repeats (`aaa`), sequences (`abcd`), keyboard patterns (`qwertyuiop`), and l33t speak.

Consider using zxcvbn as an algorithmic alternative to password composition policy — it is more secure, flexible, and usable when sites require a minimal complexity score in place of annoying rules like "passwords must contain three of {lower, upper, numbers, symbols}".

* __More secure__: policies often fail both ways, allowing weak passwords (`P@ssword1`) and disallowing strong passwords.
* __More flexible__: zxcvbn allows many password styles to flourish so long as it detects sufficient complexity — passphrases are rated highly given enough uncommon words, keyboard patterns are ranked based on length and number of turns, and capitalization adds more complexity when it's unpredictaBle.
* __More usable__: zxcvbn is designed to power simple, rule-free interfaces that give instant feedback. In addition to strength estimation, zxcvbn includes minimal, targeted verbal feedback that can help guide users towards less guessable passwords.

## Installing

`zxcvbn` can be added to your project's `Cargo.toml` under the `[dependencies]` section, as such:

```toml
[dependencies]
zxcvbn = "0.1.0"
```

If your project will only be built against the nightly Rust compiler, you can add the `unstable` feature flag to enable
some nightly-exclusive features such as SIMD which may improve performance.

```toml
[dependencies]
zxcvbn = { version = "0.1.0", features = ["unstable"] }
```

Likewise, zxcvbn has feature flags for "rustc-serialize" and "serde" if you require serialization support.

zxcvbn follows Semantic Versioning.

## Usage

Full API documentation can be found [here](https://docs.rs/crate/zxcvbn).

`zxcvbn` exposes one function called `zxcvbn` which can be called to calculate a score (0-4) for a password as well as other relevant information.
`zxcvbn` may also take an array of user inputs (e.g. username, email address, city, state) to provide warnings for passwords containing such information.

Usage example:

```rust
extern crate zxcvbn;

use zxcvbn::zxcvbn;

fn main() {
    let estimate = zxcvbn("correcthorsebatterystaple", None).unwrap();
    println!("{}", estimate.score); // 3
}
```

Other fields available on the returned `Entropy` struct may be viewed in the [full documentation](https://docs.rs/crate/zxcvbn).

## Contributing

Any contributions are welcome and will be accepted via pull request on GitHub. Bug reports can be
filed via GitHub issues. Please include as many details as possible. If you have the capability
to submit a fix with the bug report, it is preferred that you do so via pull request,
however you do not need to be a Rust developer to contribute.
Other contributions (such as improving documentation or translations) are also welcome via GitHub.

## License

zxcvbn is open-source software, distributed under the MIT license.
